listen so previously in our conjuring
timeline element we talked about how the
warrens were practically gearing up to
become the paranormal avengers
and in less than a decade they've got
themselves a whole fleshed-out universe
so far there's been nine movies in the
series with extra spin-offs on the
horizon
they've been so profitable and scary
that the first got an r rating
just off of the spooks alone and this
third one even sparked the comic
spin-off that's officially kicking off
dc comics horror line
does it compare to the first two though
not in my opinion but
it was alright this time it's the
director from la llorona which was a
movie that was messier than the way the
crew says the title la yorona
the curse of lie you run off but while
he doesn't have the master touch that
juan had on the previous ones he still
is able to create some pretty creepy
scenes that were well mixed for dolby
but honestly i think his billy island's
video is scarier it does cover the first
court case in u.s history where the
defense pleaded demonic possession how
do you plead
your honor my client pleads not guilty
by reason of
demonic possession and kevin bacon had
actually starred in the 1983 movie
version where the devil had made him do
it
but here they made it into a movie
that's part possession horror
part detective procedural and i'm not
even gonna lie
part a superhero movie about faith you
can watch it at home since wb possessed
themselves into streaming all their
biggest releases this year but
honestly why the hell would you invite
this into your home let me
explain now the conjuring series was
originally titled the warren files which
makes sense since this
entire trilogy has been about them do i
personally believe them
not really i'm not saying i don't
believe the crazy occurrences or that
they didn't happen
i'm just saying that the one thing that
i know that the warrens know how to
conjure up
is book deals headlines and a 2 billion
warner bros franchise
personally every time i see a doc a book
or a breakdown about them
they always tend to be the producers on
that doc book or breakdown
they're always credited or even
consultants for a majority of them
he told me from day one he knew i was a
goal digger
just looking at this movie there was
actually six priests that were involved
in the gladso case who all admit
the warrants didn't do crap even one of
the gladsoles called out the warrens for
profiting off of their family and
writing a book
altering facts then there was even a
bunch of allegations that makes the
story you're seeing up on screen look
pretty
funky so know that the movies aren't as
base as they say they are but
from here on out full spoilers the story
begins with eight-year-old david glatzel
who's been possessed causing the
warrians and
one priest to come over and exercise it
and little david's played by julian
hillyard who's had a scary good career
so far
from wanda vision to hill house like
this boy has jacob trembling in his
boots and he's just starting
according to the warrens in real life
they blame the possession on the family
what is the reason that david was
possessed in the first place
the reason david became possessed was
because his mother and sister
unfortunately were fooling around with
witchcraft in the movie though they get
into a cult who's leaving behind these
witch totems in people's houses
and that's why david gets infected as he
hops on this water bed catching a
stealthy transmitted demon kid ends up
turning into a wetzel pretzel which
looked extra creepy because
it was all done practically with a real
life young contortionist and we found
this
amazing young girl emerald wolf she was
12 years old when we shot it what's
amazing is when you watch the sequence
um there's definitely face replacement
because we put julian's face on her
her body but her body is all
everything that you're seeing that is
all you know was in camera
legit the priest was so spooked in this
scene that instead of helping out
the man said he was gonna go warm up the
car when he came in a taxi
again it is all to make ed seem like the
brave one in this because they really do
make every priest look like a goof
throughout the movie
when again they're the ones who didn't
do anything as caught on the tape that
doesn't exist
luckily the soon-to-be brother-in-law
arnie volunteers his tribute to transfer
the spirit over to him and that's where
he supposedly allegedly reportedly
gets possessed now the studio claimed
they were ready to start a new chapter
with this one right here
and take the franchise in a new
direction but a good chunk of the movie
is just callbacks or imagery that we've
seen before
you have all the exorcism nods that were
very obvious there's the shiny wonk in
the movie that almost got them in
trouble with the studio
they had that scary stories blob
charging at the warrens they knew they
were going up against a quiet place but
couldn't scratch the same numbers that
continuation did but the funniest thing
to me was seeing a jump cut
that was so blatantly in full view of
the character's peripheral
but they pull the arnie card and get
away with it since you know he's
possessed this also takes place during
the era of satanic panic where drugs
cults and rock and roll were considered
an epidemic and that was a period of
time in the u.s of a lot of
paranoia and you know satanic frenzy and
there was you know satanism was on the
rise but also this sense of fear
and you know paranoia in this country
that it was
you know reaching children through ozzy
osbourne and rock music
and you know so a lot of it was totally
unfounded but then you also had events
like this that were very extraordinary
and there was other
there was other similar you know satanic
death deaths and murders which
you know are you know tied into this
film and you know that
there was a lot of them if you actually
you know look it up in the uh
throughout the 80s so while the claim is
that arnie was possessed when he
committed murder
it could also be that he was drugged out
something the warrens have lied about in
the past when exploiting a family who
wasn't really possessed but was
suffering from substance abuse
ass called out by the horned novelist
who they hired to write about that case
not only does the movie lie about when
lorraine called the cops which was the
day
after but it's clear he did this for his
girl considering that they cut out the
extra people who were involved in the
incident
and the fact that he had taken him out
for lunch prior it was his soon to be
fiance's
boss landlord who's portrayed as being
extra creepy and unhinged for the
movie's sake
and i'll tell you the craziest part of
it all is that they had the real life
arnie on set
taking pics on the day they were
reenacting the murder
so um i was really waiting until after
we finished film to really
buckle down and figure out what happened
and read the books on it and everything
and
um it just never happened because i was
kind of done with that world as well
once they're done with the possession
side of the movie they pivot into the
detective side and where ed tries to
convince the court that possession is a
valid argument since
in the u.s we do swear under god in
court so now if you could prove one you
should be able to prove the other court
accepts the existence of god
every time a witness swears to tell the
truth i think it's about time they
accept the existence of the devil
illegit becomes god's not dead too as
they put their faith on trial even
inviting the lawyer over to their house
to watch the annabelle trilogy
which i've never understood how these
items are so powerful
you got to be careful with them they
need to be locked up but they're always
having people over
don't ever touch anything and if you do
let me know
in real life the judge threw out the
entire devil defense pretty quick and
the movie drops it even faster as they
charge arnie and the movie pivots then
over to the spiritual superhero side
that add and lorraine are like the
series has spanned through the decades
just like the x-men flicks were doing
the conjuring universe have spanned from
the 50s 60s 70s and now we're finally
getting into the
80s and then they end up turning it into
xavier as he searches for others like
him who can help take down this evil
fighting to get representation in court
how the second half even turns into a
domestic civil war
as the baddie has them turn on each
other they're practically treating arnie
like bucky who doesn't realize the evil
that he's done because he's
being used as a super saiyan soldier how
they even have whole ass powers now
lorraine fights against a female
nightcrawler who can shapeshift but we
see that she can even remote view as she
enhances her detective mode
don't even get me started on those crazy
utility buckles she had
they had patrick out there with his
aquaman cheeks stopping cliffhangers had
him smashing the infinity totems with a
hammer to save the day
like y'all they had matching outfits
satan didn't stand a chance against
these fantastic two
in terms of expanding the universe we
get a callback to the disciples of the
ram we first saw back in the annabelle
movies when janus the girl who owned the
doll
joined them just like they hyped up the
nun to be their thanos this would be
like their sinister
666 who's clearly going to come back in
other installments
and adam lorraine have been warned the y
is counted to everything that the
satanist
stands for his soul aim is chaos
they meet a retired priest named castner
who gives them the lme on what's going
on with this call
but he doesn't admit to them that it's
his daughter who's going around trick
and treating
leaving totems around in order to curse
people and this ties back to the
character of jessica who they were
investigating earlier
a college girl who was also supposedly
allegedly reportedly
possessed and stabbed her friend out in
the woods 22 times just like arnie did
that's what the dc comic spin-off is
about and it's supposed to get into her
backstory which is going to be
interesting to see how they flesh that
out
but i'm even more curious on the fact
that it's the same actress here playing
jessica
that was also the actress playing the
nun that goes missing in the nun
you know they already cast the firmiga
sisters for a reason so i could
definitely see this being a character
that may play a bigger role
in the same vein of what they're doing
with those two curse needs
three victims to be complete the child
the lover
and the man of god with the warrens
being the central characters there's
definitely a big push on reflecting
their relationship through the other
couples that are in the movie
you know they're the demonologists who
always find a way through their love
but arnie and debbie would be the
opposite they're the alternate version
and where one of them actually got
possessed
castner the priest describes him and his
wife as being the older more depressed
version of the warrens who
is just as well versed in their line of
work even has a room full of spooky
artifacts in his own home
but the difference is he's the version
of ed without lorraine
and even worse he's a terrible parent we
must
be careful how our obsessions are passed
to our children it is interesting to see
how the movies went from casting
sterling gerunds as a daughter and all
of the installments
up until annabelle comes home when they
like gave her more lines and so they
gave it to mckenna grace
only to then go back to sterling for
this one it is shown how the cinematic
warrens made sure to push their daughter
to pursue college and her passions
to make a whole moment out of that when
they're in the hospital whereas when you
compare it to castner
he was worse than a washed up high
school quarterback he pushed his study
so much on his kid that she ended up
joining the other team
like she's so big on satan's side that
she hates the father
her father and goes farther than any of
the other cult members
because she's ready to end this
franchise before she thinks our love is
our weakness
it's our strength
in the end they're able to defeat the
occultists by destroying her work from
home space
they reunite through the power of love
as they add a new trophy to their
collection
and another installment to this universe
now i'm gonna go watch spirit the
cartoon thank you all for watching this
video i'm curious to know your thoughts
down below in the comment section
uh like i said it's not as spooky as the
other ones but i think that if you go
out to see this in theaters
some of y'all may be wearing your mask
over your eyes uh just like in all the
sets they always bring
priests to come bless it and i know
there's always like something crazy they
always have a crazy story and i believe
this one was that a fire alarm went off
with
like no indication which i know scared
everybody on there but
it's gonna be interesting to see how
they expand on this story uh now that
they're like getting to the next decade
you know there was supposed to be an
after credits that i believe got cut so
i'm not exactly sure what that would
have pushed i know that they're working
on a lot of spin-offs but
i know one of the big things in the
background and one of the things that
definitely got cut
and may even be the scariest is all the
allegations that they have against them
which
again supposedly reportedly allegedly
but when you look into it and you see
that lorraine's contract with the studio
specifically mentioned you know to make
sure that they don't bring up any of
those claims
it's like weirdly specific just as weird
as the studio wanting to buy the life
rights of the woman who lived with them
and
made those accusations how her name is
judy and that's also what the warren's
name their daughter
like it's just a little too much you
know you end up running into a story
that honestly it seems like they're
blaming the devil and it sounds like
lorraine made him do it
the conjuring is very very accurate
so that doesn't make me feel any better
by now the actors have completely
shifted to
admitting that it's fully artistic
expression so they'll definitely be
having free reign to do whatever they
want so i'm assuming the next decade is
going to be
in the 90s that's where the next movie
will be so we'll see where they take it
from there
i'm curious to see how they're able to
expand to different characters because i
know these two won't always be there
and i'm not sure if there's like any
other bigger staples you know i don't
think we've met other than the doll
uh who we would root for but at this
point i'm more afraid of lorraine than i
am of
annabelle so uh we'll see how this
franchise continues to expand
continues to go because i know they
cross to billy uh
it's probably only gonna be up from
there so i'm kissing your thoughts on
this franchise on where you think
they're gonna take it any series any
spin-offs if you're reading the comic
anything else you have to say about this
one and until next time don't forget to
comment like and subscribe
or you'll end up at the warren's museum